At the Mutual Fund Bank
A Play in One Act
Reviewed by Ginger Vidal

My faithful readers can attest to the fact that I'm not one to jump on a bandwagon or heap praise on an overwrought lump of lead.  So it might come as a surprise to some that I absolutely adored Jean-Richard Pauvremousse's latest theatrical production, At the Mutual Fund Bank.  The press in Zitzengunsten has been building it up for weeks.  So when it finally hit the stage at the Polished Brown Globe Theatre here in Fork in the Road, I dreaded the assignment I knew was coming.  Even I was sure I would find something to detest about this production.

But everything was exquisite.  The thespians undulated with their lines, as though they themselves were caught in the emotional tsunami depicted by this force of nature play.  Particularly brilliant was Bob, who exuded restrained pathos and hurt and fear, and made the audience want to hug him and tell him everything would be all right in the end.

The costumes were period-perfect, middle-class twenty-first century business chic: jeans and T-shirt, and a full three-piece suit.

The set was well-built and not distracting to the casual observer.  Yet the richness of its patterns and the deep beige draperies and wallpaoper and the realistic blur of rain on the window all subtely added to the heartwrenching story.

The audio was terrible, but when have you ever heard decent audio at a play.

Above all, Pauvremousse's script was masterful.  I literally cried for five minutes at the end of the show.  Pauvremousse understands crushing loss and heartbreak like no other playwright since Dan Needles.

At the Mutual Fund Bank plays every night until Tuesday week.  Tickets are $15 each.  Only remote virtual seats are available during the scabies enemapidemic.  Tickets must be picked up at the box office on Wednesday between 6pm and 6:15pm.  Most performances are sold out, so hurry to the box office on Wednesday evening and jostle to be first in line.

* * *

LIAM: Morning, Bob.

BOB: Morning, Liam.  What's for mutual fund this morning?

LIAM: Oil and gold, today, Bob.  Also some Japanese currency on the side.

BOB groans.

LIAM: I know, Bob, but oil's all we can afford these days.

BOB: I miss the little feel-good organic food corporations and ethical funds.

LIAM: Me too, Bob, me too.  Listen, mutual fund will be just a few more minutes.  We ran out and had to whip up another batch.

BOB: Oh, no trouble, my friend, no trouble.

LIAM: Can I get you a GIC while you wait?

BOB: Yes please, Liam.  Doube double.

Pause.

LIAM: Here you go, Bob.  How's the wife?

BOB: Thank you, Liam.  Oh, you know how it is.  Yesterday she went from expecting to retire comfortably at 55 to barely being able to keep the Porsche if she pushes back retirement to 58.

LIAM: Oh my God!  Jesus!  I'm so sorry, Bob.

BOB: Amen to that, brother.  But it's all right.  We're all going through hardship right now.
