Monthly Fork in the Road Poetry Contest

This month, we only had two entries for the Monthly Fork in the Road Poetry Contest, and a note from Ms. Dandy at Fork West Junior High that nobody knows or cares how to read or write anything longer than 280 characters any more, so why do we still bother holding a poetry contest?

We were forced to disqualify James Ladeeda's submission, because as a male, he must not write from the perspective of any woman, especially not a Chinese one.  Or Korean.  Whatever it was, who can tell the difference, it was something Asian.  We think.  Anyway, we don't actually care, we're really horrible people and deep inside we hate all yellow people; we just couldn't pass up the opportunity to act pious and holier-than-thou and send up this virtue signal.

We didn't bother to read this month's winning submission.  It was too long, and even holding our phones sideways we couldn't see the ends of some of the lines.  But we know the submitter, Slurpee Gupta, to be an outstanding young poet.  She is a brown woman who grew up in squalor on another continent; she has been raped three and a half times; and her alcoholic husband abuses her.  Need we say more?  We could not have found a more qualified poet if we'd tried.

Without further ado, here is this month's winning poem.

* * *

A Canadian Imagist Poet Writes a Canadian Imagist Poem That Begins With an Image
By Slurpee Gupta

Inside the hard-edged white
Of this Platonic solid
Mildew-scented, sized for four
Black wheels and metal bod
(Once an unrenovated box,
Exhaust-smeared and oiled purple green,
Populated with rolling green metal blades
Black snake three-copper-fanged tail,
And rusted red-handled autumn comb)
Now gypsum white, insulated,
Carpeted beige
Under turbulent spackled sky,
A forest grows.

A clearing at the centre of of these woods
Panelled walls, like trunks of
Firs
Planted fifty years ago
Grainy, darkened by time
Deep rich puce patina'd pine
Before the rich, wet loam laid the ground this eve
For the forking growth we see unfolding
Before us, branching, reaching outward:
Leaves on a table, veined all in black.

For black is the ink of a proper poet
Like her heart, not blue, it's dead
Dead as the night that falls
Each cycle of the globe, falls again
While she sings in her black chains like the sea
And pens another tributary requiem
Pens the poetic gorge flowing from within
And urns her fifyeen bucks on time.

If we, voyeurs, could with wings
Fly
To perch
With our long and curving
Protrusions
Of keratin from each toe,
Scythelike and deadly,
Upon the slowly, slightly swishing blades,
A semaphore,
With five dusty, lightly webbed suns
(Four of these cornfloured globes
Blackened by their supernova deaths
Cosmic holes in the torn and tattered fabric
That permeates all things,
Even this cheap Rona ceiling fan)
Flashing
Swish-swish-swish
And from our circulating perch, gaze
With blackened eyes
Curious, head tilting
Black-capped chickadees
Like the kind that roam across the Great White North
Those majestic passerines
That, though Jeff knows it not,
(Still, after four revisions,
Melland's Masturclass reading list has no 978-1553631200)
Comprise the provincial bird of New Brunswick
With wings striped like zebras
Bellies white as snowflakes on a dovetail,
Chirrupping
In a spinning red alder
With its dangling reddish catkins
10 to 15 cm (3.9 to 5.9 in) long in early spring
Above the black-veined leaves
That cover the ground 'round the roots
Of this rotating red alder tree

If we, voyeurs, bewinged and betaloned thus
Spinning
Could only not be dizzy, or puke
Upon the leaves at the forest floor
Then lucky birds would we be
And chirrupp like the metal polyhedron
Walled in its own rectilinear world
Corner inset, lined by breakers
Calling
Chick chick chick chick whoosh
Dry heat pushed through shiny ducts
And up through the forest floor as though a
Swarm
Invisible but felt
Has lifted, sued by
Amphibian:
Prey!

From our alder perch we'd see
A great torrent of cold, Pacific brine
Flowing from that pen of hers,
The poet dimly lit who, in this dark forest,
Watched by us black-eyed tits,
In the speculating yellow dusk
Gentle buss of vernal equinox,
Shines
Casting rays of blinding thought
Earning her fifyeen bucks
If she makes her deadline

So it is with
Relief
We see the black veins raised above
The surface leaves
And shadows 'twixt the waxy skins
Platonic shadows of the box she's in
Seed this living forest, cacophonous, cyclical,
Seasonal, dying, black,
Alive and white and beige.

But wings and talons came not to us at birth
Instead we lie here, drunk, together, cuddling
Atop the flowerbed and earth
Outside the poet's window
Watching as she pours the black sea into leaves
Wondering outside what's in
What's she doing in there?
Is she writing about me?

* * *

About the Poet

Slurpee Gupta is a yonug woman poet who is brown and grew up in squalor on another continent, has been raped at least three and a half times, and whose alcoholic husband abuses her.  She is therefore Fork in the Road's most esteemed poet.

Slurpee composed her poem and submitted it as her final piece while enrolled in the Melland Masturclass in Pretentious Poetry.  Slurpee received a grade of D+.

Mastur Melland commented: "Slurpee is a Person of Inferiority, and as such, the White People Patronizing All Those Little Brown Immigrants Act makes it clear that I had to give her a passing grade for this ineffable rubbish."

One of Slurpee's classmates, Jurgen Folknos-Watt, wrote a brief essay about Slurpee's poem:

* * *

Suburbia.  We open in suburbia.

What is suburbia?  Heidegger tells us it comes from the roots of sub-, beneath in Latin, urb-, the Latin term for city, and -ia, a neutered postfix.

A neutered postfix.

Sex and frustration with impotence are the central themes of this poem, and we can see this in the stanza that clearly describes a man masturbating in the window of an apartment as hot young women pass by, until we come all over ourselves:

    Chick chick chick chick whoosh

Yet where is the come?

We are told that it is:

  Dry heat pushed through shiny ducts

Shiny, red and rubbed raw, but dry.

We cannot even come.

This poem is a statement for our time.

We cannot come.

We cannot go.

We must stay put.

Slurpee's central theme, in this poem, is the deep Hegelian phenomenology of being during a scabies outbreak.

The being-essence of scabies is impotence in suburbia.

* * *

Jurgen Folknos-Watt's literary criticism has been published in such esteemed journals as: Xena, Warrior Princess: Cultural Studies in Lesbian TV; and Cowabunga Dude Don't Touch Me There: Molestation as a Metaphor for the Experience of Reading in the First Fifty-Seven Seasons of The Simpsons.
