Chess Masters Officiator Declares State of Emergency

Chess Masters Officiator Dr. Faustus Gulp, PhD., held a press conference Thursday to declare a state of emergency at the ongoing Fork in the Road Chess Tourney.

"We are living in unprecedented times," Dr. Gulp said.

The Fork in the Road Chess Tourney, which takes place every year in the garden shed at the back of the supermarket parking lot, has been locked down to contain the scabies outbreak.

"We have epoxied all of the pieces to the boards," Dr. Gulp said.  "We are taking no chances with this, and we ask that all the chess masters keep their hands off the pieces until further notice."

When asked if the timers would be stopped, Dr. Gulp said he was awaiting further modeling from his chess staff.

The scabies outbreak continues to worsen at the Chess Tournament 2020 in neighbouring Zitzengunsten.  At least 3 people now have uncontrollable urges to scratch their itches.  Models show that as many as 0.1 persons might die in ther Zitzengunsten tournament over the next month.

"We have never before seen Deaths at this scale, people getting Sick in these numbers," Dr. Gulp said.  "Now, more than ever, we must draw a line through the squiggly thing."

It was pointed out to Dr. Gulp that 1 of last year's Chess Masters, Andreas Vieux, died of tuberculosis in December.  Dr. Gulp explained that the difference is, last December, we weren't capitalizing Death and Sickness.  "The world has changed," he said, "we have never experienced hardship like this before, and we must live in fear and total control of everyone's movements and thoughts by the board of directors."

The Chess Master Officiator has set up a hotline to report on neighbours who touch their chess pieces.  If you suspect your neighbour of violating the state of emergency rules, you are urged to call 111 immediately.

At the end of the press conference, an epoxied knight fell over.

"Shit," said Dr. Gulp.

CORRECTION: A previous edition of this article erroneously reported that Wednesday's fatal car crash, involving 1 driver and a Chevy Impala, was the result of the scabies outbreak at the Fork in the Road Chess Tourney.  Forensic ontologists could find no connection between the amount of alcohol consumed by the 41-year-old male and the scabies outbreak in neighbouring Zitzengunsten.  The Nihilist regrets conflating this run of the mill death with a scabies Death.
